WEEK ONE

2/3/18 (William)
The most important thing we’ve done this week is meeting Prof. Raney’s research group. We asked questions about the intended purpose and intended functionality of the app to guide our upcoming work. 

We can already foresee a potential conflict with what our team and the research group believe will make an effective app. With categories like nutrition, exercise and points of interest along with  additional features to be implemented in each, the app could run the risk of being bloated and/or unfocused. 

What may be more problematic right now are technical issues. The Android Studio IDE has a steep learning curve and has many functions that we have yet to explore. Although most of us have at least run the virtual memory device, one of us has to because of issues with their OS.

Right now our largest blocker may be to familiarize ourselves with the XML language and with the Android IDE. To save some time, we will use Java and not Kotlin to code our app.
	
Technical Questions to be resolved:
For William:
-What is the main purpose of the activity_main.xml file? Why is a new string resource not automatically created in the strings.xml file if I put something in the activity_main.xml file? 

Things Learned:
For William:
-manipulating color.xml/string.xml
-constraints for layout
-how to use design and text views

Reflection: 
What is the project:
	Prof. Raney is trying to get more low income Angelenos to adopt healthy lifestyles. By incorporating an activities map, exercise and recipe guides in an easy to use app on the Android platform, more people will have constant access to website resources. This project will import and streamline the functions of the website to ensure maximum outreach.

What did I think it was going to be:
	I largely thought that the app was going to emphasize the exercise or recipe portion of the website. Instead what Prof. Raney wants emphasized more is the activities part. Furthermore, I discovered during the meeting that the app is supposed to be more about low income workers rather than the whole of Los Angeles. This narrower audience target will help us immensely as there are already a multitude of health apps that target the mainstream audiences. 

Thoughts about the project:
I have concerns about how bloated the app may become. The app is trying to accomplish a lot of things so it may eventually suffer from lack of clarity. Worse, the app may become uninteresting to use because it tries to be a jack of all trades but a master of none. Consequently, I am a big fan of trying to narrow down the final content of the app.



REFLECTION for 2/5/18 (Joey)

Basic project description:
	Prof. Raney and her research team have developed a website which aims to promote healthier living among Los Angeles residents and, specifically, Los Angeles families. The website provides a variety of easy-to-access resources providing guidelines for both nutrition and exercises. The primary features of the website are a map which has tagged good areas for getting food and working out/hiking around LA and a collection of recipes and quick workout guides which can be searched through with filtered results. Our project is to make a mobile app version of this website which will carry over the same features and improve on them.
	
Before and after partner meeting:
	My idea of what the project was going to entail held pretty constant from before the meeting to after. What I did realize throughout the meeting, however, is that their priorities were a bit different than what I expected. The most iportant thing with the app is not for it to have extremely improved, or new, clever, features, but to make the already-existing content easy to access in the most user-friendly way possible. First and foremost they want the map to be showcased and navigatable in a very intuitive way. The next biggest priority is to be able to find the information you need by running through a series of simple prompts which results in giving you a short list of specific, relevant options (for example: Do you want to workout or exercise? -> How much time do you have to exercise? -> etc). 
	
Status:
	As is the case whenever I start a new kind of computer science work, my inital set of challenges lies in figuring out how to set up the software that I'm going to be working with on my ChromeOS. Android Studio is running fine, but I'm still working on gitKraken and if I can't figure it out by tonight, I'll need to find a different machine to work on for this project. I am really excited for the project and, though we're still establishing how we're going to be doing our work and who will do what, I feel like I'm already getting a good feel for what out first beta should be like and will continue learning how to operate Android Studio to understand how to make those pieces come together.
	
User Story 1: A Los Angeles mother of three has some family coming into town for the weekend. She wants to quickly look through nearby options for hiking trails to see if she can plan a healthy Saturday outing for everyone.
User Story 2: Someone is finishing a shopping trip and, about to head home, realizes they forgot to pick up produce for their salad tonight. They need to quickly see if there is anywhere in the vicinity where they can find fresh, local produce.
User Story 3: George goes along with a group out during lunch break on work and eats more and less healthy food than he had planned on. Wanting to do something better for his body he wants to quickly plan a workout he can fit into the 30 minutes before he needs to go back to work.
 Sty
Reflection 2/5/18 (Dan)

Basic Project description: 
	We met with Prof. Raney's research team and were told how to proceed in building the app. The goal of said app is to make exercising and eating healthy more accessible to residents of Los Angeles. To do this, we are expected to build an android app with Spanish and English language options that gives its users three choices. These choices are: Exercise, Nutrition, and Map. The exercise tab will have a collection of simple bodyweight exercises that anybody can do in an office or at home. The nutrition tab will be similar in functionality, it will give a list of healthy recipes that can be cooked in a user specified amount of time. The map options is supposed to be the centerpiece of the app. The map should show a huge variety of things to do around LA including, bike paths, hiking trails, public parks and a plethora of other options. 

Before and after the partner meeting: 
	Prior to the partner meeting I was very concerned about our ability to finish this project. The website that prof. Raney has already contains a significant amount of information, and I was worried about being able to include all of the information on the website in our app. The biggest concern prior to the meeting was time, but the amount of space the app took up could also have been an issue. The partner meeting relieved many of these concerns, but did not resolve them entirely. After the meeting, we learned that we would only be putting a small subset of the website into an app. However, the app is supposed to be built around ease of use and quick access. I don't know very much about android app development at the moment and am concerned how I would implement that. I know very little about efficiency in programming especially when it comes to app development. 

Status: 
	I am still very concerned about the project. Any time I need to learn a new language I am always extremely stressed. After my initial foray into Android Studio, I am even more concerned. The program feels very unintuitive to use and there are not very many up-to-date tutorials online that teach me how to use the software. I think that the project is doable, but I don't know if I can put the amount of polish into the app that would be expected of a well made application. I'm afraid that our application showcase will be too bare bones or even too incomplete to show at the expected date, and I'm worried that I will fall behind my group and be dead weight for this project. As for how I think the project will proceed, I think that we are going to continue building basic UI skeletons and fitting them with information that is relatively easy to implement in Android Studio. However, I think that once we get over the first showcase of our application and need to start building more complex systems for the app development will slow down significantly. 

User Story: An LA native is having a rough week at his office and has not had any time to exercise. During his lunch break, he wants to find an exercise that he can do for 5-10 minutes that will help keep him healthy. 
User Story 2: A college student has decided that she wants to make a change in her life, and start living healthily. She has no experience with any ways to eat healthy,  or work out. 

REFLECTION for 2/5/18 (Teagan)

Project Description: From Professor Raney's research team, we were tasked with creating an Android app for LA residents that would help them find
activities around them, exercises, and healthy meals. The app helps guide users to find their perfect workout given time or equipment constraints,
and meals given time, ingredients, and portability constraints.

Before and after partner meeting: Before the meeting, I think I had a decent idea of what the project was going to entail, and that was, for the most
part, confirmed at the meeting. However, it became clear during the meeting that they already had a clear idea of how they wanted the app to flow and
display information. Further, they made it clear that the map showing activities near the user was the most important part of the app.

Status: Currently I feel optimistic about the outcome of the project. I think that, while we have many technical challenges ahead of us, we can deliver
an attractive, intuitive app for the Prof. Raney and the research team. I want to take the lead on developing the map, which I feel like will be challenging
but also a great opportunity for me to learn. I like the development team, and think we are already working really well together.

User story: Maria is a single mother with two young boys. She needs to find a recipe for a quick, on-the-go breakfast for her kids.
